Fallout 4 is a post-apocalyptic role-playing game developed by Bethesda Game Studios and published by Bethesda Softworks. It is the fifth major installment in the Fallout series (eighth overall). It was released on Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 4, and Xbox One on November 10, 2015, except in Japan, where it was released on December 17, 2015. A VR version of the game was released originally on Microsoft Windows with HTC Vive in 2017 and is treated as an independent standalone game.

The story focuses on the Sole Survivor, a Vault dweller from the pre-War era who was cryonically frozen inside Vault 111, later waking up in the wasteland over 200 years later to search for their missing child, Shaun. Fallout 4 is set in the Commonwealth, previously mentioned in Fallout 3, composed of the surrounding area of Boston, Massachusetts. The Sole Survivor discovers a world gripped by fear over a mysterious organization known as the Institute which has the people of the Commonwealth consumed by paranoia that they could be replaced by a race of artificial human-like beings known as synths. As a result of the synth-focused narrative, the Sole Survivor and the player are faced with ethical questions such as how far people should experiment with science, the morality of creating sentient machines that express emotions and suffering, and what it means to be human. Story elements from previous games are present, primarily Fallout 3; the main story of Fallout 4 expands on elements from the side quest The Replicated Man from Fallout 3.

In 2022, Bethesda announced that a free next-gen patch would be released for Fallout 4 on PC, PlayStation 5 and Xbox Series X. Released on April 25, 2024, this patch includes bug fixes, performance mode features for high frame rates, quality features for 4K resolution gameplay, and new Creation Club content. A full re-release of the game, Fallout 4: Anniversary Edition, was published on November 10, 2025, launching alongside the Creations system and the Verified Creator Program, replacing the original Creation Club mechanic. On the same day of the Anniversary Edition launch, Fallout 4 was added to Xbox Play Anywhere, allowing cross progression and cross saves between the Xbox and the PC (Microsoft Store/Xbox on PC) version of the game. Previously, Fallout 4 had a PC version on the Microsoft Store separate from the console version.[Non-game 2]